
in book: bug bounty real world
The OAuth Workflow
The OAuth process is complex, so let’s begin with basic terms. Three
actors are involved in the most basic OAuth flow:
The resource owner is the user attempting to log in via OAuth.
The resource server is a third-party API that authenticates the
resource owner. Any site can be a resource server, but the most
popular ones include Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, and so on.
The client is the third-party application that the resource owner
visits. The client is allowed to access data on the resource server
When you attempt to log in using OAuth, the client requests access
to your information from the resource server and asks the resource
owner (in this case, you) for approval to access the data. The client
might ask for access to all your information or only specific pieces. The
information that a client requests is defined by scopes. Scopes are
similar to permissions in that they restrict what information an
application can access from the resource server. For example, Facebook
scopes include the user’s 
email
, 
public_profile
, 
user_friends
, and so on. If
you grant a client access to only the 
email
 scope, the client can’t access
your profile information, friends list, and other information.
Now that you understand the actors involved, let’s examine the
OAuth process when logging into a client for the first time using
Facebook as the example resource server. The OAuth process begins
when you visit a client and click the Login with Facebook button. This
results in a 
GET
 request to an authentication endpoint on the client.
Often, 
the 
path 
looks 
like 
this: 
https://www.
<example>.com/oauth/facebook/. Shopify, for example, uses Google for
OAuth with the URL https://<STORE>.myshopify.com/admin/auth/login?
google_apps=1/.
The client responds to this HTTP request with a 302 redirect to the
resource server. The redirect URL will include parameters to facilitate
the OAuth process, which are defined as follows:
The client_id identifies the client to the resource server. Each client
will have its own client_id so the resource server can identify the
application initiating the request to access the resource owner’s
information.
The redirect_uri identifies where the resource server should redirect
the resource owner’s browser after the resource server has
authenticated the resource owner.
The response_type identifies what type of response to provide. This
is usually a token or code, although a resource server can define
other accepted values. A token response type provides an access
token that immediately allows access to information from the
resource server. A code response type provides an access code that
must be exchanged for an access token via an extra step in the
OAuth process.
The scope, mentioned earlier, identifies the permissions a client is
requesting to access from the resource server. During the first
authorization request, the resource owner should be presented
with a dialog to review and approve the requested scopes.
The state is an unguessable value that prevents cross-site request
forgeries. This value is optional but should be implemented on all
OAuth applications. It should be included in the HTTP request to
the resource server. Then it should be returned and validated by
the client to ensure an attacker can’t maliciously invoke the OAuth
process on another user’s behalf

